README.md, before:

# Arobid MCP

MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that connects to **Arobid Backend**, allowing AI tools and editors to call backend APIs in a structured way.

## Overview

Arobid MCP provides a standardized interface for interacting with Arobid Backend services through the Model Context Protocol. This enables AI assistants and development tools to seamlessly integrate with Arobid's backend capabilities.

## Features

- ✅ **Create Personal Account** - Register new user accounts via Arobid Backend
- ✅ **User Login** - Login to retrieve a new OTP when the previous one has expired
- ✅ **Verify User** - Verify user account using OTP code sent to email
- ✅ **Resend OTP** - Resend OTP code to user email when verification fails or OTP expires
- 🔄 More tools coming soon (profile updates, etc.)

## Tech Stack

- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Runtime**: Node.js (v18+)
- **Framework**: MCP SDK (`@modelcontextprotocol/sdk`)
- **Package Manager**: npm

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- npm (or pnpm if you prefer)

## Installation

1. Clone or navigate to this repository:

   ```bash
   cd arobid-mcp
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables (see [Configuration](#configuration) below)

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```env
# Required: Arobid Backend base URL
AROBID_BACKEND_URL=https://api.arobid.com

# Optional: API key for authentication (if required by backend)
AROBID_API_KEY=your-api-key-here

# Optional: Tenant ID (if multi-tenant support is needed)
AROBID_TENANT_ID=your-tenant-id
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable             | Required | Description                                       |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `AROBID_BACKEND_URL` | Yes      | Base URL of the Arobid Backend API                |
| `AROBID_API_KEY`     | No       | API key for authenticating requests (if required) |
| `AROBID_TENANT_ID`   | No       | Tenant identifier for multi-tenant setups         |

## Development

### Build

Compile TypeScript to JavaScript:

```bash
npm run build
```

### Run

Start the MCP server (stdio transport):

```bash
npm start
```

### Development Mode

Watch for changes and rebuild automatically:

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Type Checking

Check TypeScript types without building:

```bash
npm run type-check
```

### Code Formatting

Format code using Prettier:

```bash
# Format all files
npm run format

# Check formatting without making changes
npm run format:check
```

## Project Structure

```
arobid-mcp/
├── src/
│   ├── index.ts                 # MCP server entrypoint (stdio transport)
│   ├── client/
│   │   └── arobidClient.ts      # HTTP client for Arobid Backend
│   └── tools/
│       ├── createPersonalAccount.ts  # Create account tool
│       ├── userLogin.ts         # User login tool
│       ├── resendOtp.ts         # Resend OTP tool
│       └── verifyUser.ts        # Verify user tool
├── dist/                        # Compiled JavaScript (generated)
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

## Available Tools

### `createPersonalAccount`

Creates a new personal user account in Arobid Backend.

**Parameters:**

- `email` (string, required): User email address
- `password` (string, required): User password (6-20 characters with complexity requirements)
- `firstName` (string, required): User first name
- `lastName` (string, required): User last name
- `title` (string, required): User title (Mr or Mrs)
- `phone` (string, required): User phone number (Vietnamese or international format)
- `national` (string, required): User nationality code (2-letter uppercase country code)

**Example:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "SecurePass123!",
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Doe",
  "title": "Mr",
  "phone": "+841231231123",
  "national": "VN"
}
```

### `userLogin`

Performs user login in Arobid Backend. This can be used to retrieve a new OTP when the previous one has expired.

**Parameters:**

- `email` (string, required): User email address
- `password` (string, required): User password

**Example:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "SecurePass123!"
}
```

**Note**: After successful login, a new OTP will be sent to the user's email. Use this tool when you need to retrieve a fresh OTP after the previous one has expired.

### `resendOtp`

Resends OTP code to user email in Arobid Backend. Use this when verifyUser fails due to expired or invalid OTP.

**Parameters:**

- `userEmail` (string, required): User email address

**Example:**

```json
{
  "userEmail": "user@example.com"
}
```

**Note**: After calling this tool, a new OTP will be sent to the user's email. Use this tool when verification fails or the OTP has expired, instead of using `userLogin`.

### `verifyUser`

Verifies a user account in Arobid Backend using the OTP code sent to the user email.

**Parameters:**

- `userEmail` (string, required): User email address
- `otp` (string, required): One-time password (OTP) code - exactly 6 digits

**Example:**

```json
{
  "userEmail": "user@example.com",
  "otp": "123456"
}
```

**Note**: The OTP in this example is for demonstration only. In production, use the actual OTP code sent to the user's email. If the OTP has expired or verification fails, use `resendOtp` to get a new OTP code, or use `userLogin` to retrieve a new one via login.

## MCP Server Integration

The MCP server uses stdio transport and can be integrated with any MCP-compatible client. Configure your MCP client to point to this server's entrypoint.

Example configuration (for Claude Desktop or similar):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "arobid": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/arobid-mcp/dist/index.js"],
      "env": {
        "AROBID_BACKEND_URL": https://api.example.com",
        "AROBID_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

The server includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Input Validation**: Validates required fields and data types before making API calls
- **HTTP Errors**: Converts backend HTTP errors to user-friendly messages
- **Network Errors**: Handles network failures gracefully
- **Logging**: Logs important events and errors to stderr (MCP standard)

## Testing & Cursor Integration

### Local Testing

Test the MCP server locally using the MCP Inspector (recommended):

For a better testing experience, use the MCP Inspector:

```bash
npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector node dist/index.js
```

This opens a web UI where you can interactively test tools, view logs, and debug issues.

### Configuring Cursor

To use this MCP server with Cursor:

1. **Locate Cursor's MCP configuration file**:
   - **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Cursor/User/globalStorage/saoudrizwan.claude-dev/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json`
   - **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Cursor\User\globalStorage\saoudrizwan.claude-dev\settings\cline_mcp_settings.json`
   - **Linux**: `~/.config/Cursor/User/globalStorage/saoudrizwan.claude-dev/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json`

2. **Get your project's absolute path**:

   ```bash
   pwd
   # Example output: /path/to/arobid-mcp
   ```

3. **Add the configuration** (see `cursor-mcp-config.json.example` for a template):

   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "arobid": {
         "command": "node",
         "args": ["/absolute/path/to/arobid-mcp/dist/index.js"],
         "env": {
           "AROBID_BACKEND_URL": https://api.example.com",
           "AROBID_API_KEY": "your-api-key-here"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Restart Cursor** to load the MCP server

5. **Test in Cursor**: Ask "What MCP tools are available?" or try using the tools directly.

For detailed instructions and troubleshooting, see [MCP_TESTING.md](./MCP_TESTING.md).

## Deploying to Vercel

This MCP server can be deployed to Vercel as a serverless function, allowing it to be accessed via HTTP instead of stdio.

### Prerequisites

- A Vercel account
- Vercel CLI installed (optional, for local testing)

### Deployment Steps

1. **Install Vercel CLI** (if not already installed):

   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables in Vercel**:

   - Go to your Vercel project settings
   - Navigate to Environment Variables
   - Add the following variables:
     - `AROBID_BACKEND_URL` (required)
     - `AROBID_API_KEY` (optional)
     - `AROBID_TENANT_ID` (optional)

3. **Deploy to Vercel**:

   ```bash
   vercel
   ```

   Or connect your GitHub repository to Vercel for automatic deployments.

4. **Get your MCP server URL**:

   After deployment, you'll get a URL like `https://your-project.vercel.app`. The MCP endpoint will be available at:
   ```
   https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp
   ```

### Configuring MCP Clients for Vercel Deployment

#### For Cursor

Update your `.cursor/mcp.json` configuration to use the HTTP transport:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "arobid": {
      "url": "https://your-project.vercel.app/mcp",
      "headers":{
       "X-Arobid-Backend-Url": https://api.example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### For Other MCP Clients

Use the Streamable HTTP transport format with your Vercel deployment URL:

```
https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp
```

### Testing the Vercel Deployment

You can test your deployed MCP server using the MCP Inspector:

```bash
pnpm dlx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector@latest http://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp undefined
```

Then:
1. Open `http://127.0.0.1:6274` in your browser
2. Select "Streamable HTTP" in the dropdown
3. Enter your Vercel URL: `https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp`
4. Click "Connect"

### Local Development with Vercel

To test the Vercel integration locally:

```bash
vercel dev
```

This will start a local server that mimics Vercel's serverless environment.

## TODO / Known Limitations

The following items need to be configured based on actual Arobid Backend API:

- [ ] Verify exact endpoint path for account creation (currently `/api/user/create_user_for_sign_up_async`)
- [ ] Verify authentication header format (currently using `Authorization: Bearer <key>`)
- [ ] Verify tenant ID header name (currently using `X-Tenant-ID`)
- [ ] Add response type definitions based on actual API responses
- [ ] Add additional tools (profile update, etc.)

All TODO items are marked with `// TODO` comments in the code.

## Contributing

When adding new tools:

1. Create a new file in `src/tools/` (e.g., `src/tools/myNewTool.ts`)
2. Export the tool definition and handler function
3. Register the tool in `src/index.ts`
4. Update this README with tool documentation

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add `checkResetPassword` tool to Arobid MCP for initiating password reset processes. Update README with new functionality and usage instructions. Enhance server registration logic to include the new tool and implement shared validation utilities for email and non-empty strings.

README.md, after:

# Arobid MCP

MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that connects to **Arobid Backend**, allowing AI tools and editors to call backend APIs in a structured way.

## Overview

Arobid MCP provides a standardized interface for interacting with Arobid Backend services through the Model Context Protocol. This enables AI assistants and development tools to seamlessly integrate with Arobid's backend capabilities.

## Features

- ✅ **Create Personal Account** - Register new user accounts via Arobid Backend
- ✅ **User Login** - Login to retrieve a new OTP when the previous one has expired
- ✅ **Verify User** - Verify user account using OTP code sent to email
- ✅ **Resend OTP** - Resend OTP code to user email when verification fails or OTP expires
- ✅ **Check Reset Password** - Initiate password reset process by sending reset link/OTP to user email
- 🔄 More tools coming soon (profile updates, etc.)

## Tech Stack

- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Runtime**: Node.js (v18+)
- **Framework**: MCP SDK (`@modelcontextprotocol/sdk`)
- **Package Manager**: npm

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- npm (or pnpm if you prefer)

## Installation

1. Clone or navigate to this repository:

   ```bash
   cd arobid-mcp
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables (see [Configuration](#configuration) below)

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```env
# Required: Arobid Backend base URL
AROBID_BACKEND_URL=https://api.arobid.com

# Optional: API key for authentication (if required by backend)
AROBID_API_KEY=your-api-key-here

# Optional: Tenant ID (if multi-tenant support is needed)
AROBID_TENANT_ID=your-tenant-id
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable             | Required | Description                                       |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `AROBID_BACKEND_URL` | Yes      | Base URL of the Arobid Backend API                |
| `AROBID_API_KEY`     | No       | API key for authenticating requests (if required) |
| `AROBID_TENANT_ID`   | No       | Tenant identifier for multi-tenant setups         |

## Development

### Build

Compile TypeScript to JavaScript:

```bash
npm run build
```

### Run

Start the MCP server (stdio transport):

```bash
npm start
```

### Development Mode

Watch for changes and rebuild automatically:

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Type Checking

Check TypeScript types without building:

```bash
npm run type-check
```

### Code Formatting

Format code using Prettier:

```bash
# Format all files
npm run format

# Check formatting without making changes
npm run format:check
```

## Project Structure

```
arobid-mcp/
├── src/
│   ├── index.ts                 # MCP server entrypoint (stdio transport)
│   ├── client/
│   │   └── arobidClient.ts      # HTTP client for Arobid Backend
│   └── tools/
│       ├── createPersonalAccount.ts  # Create account tool
│       ├── userLogin.ts         # User login tool
│       ├── resendOtp.ts         # Resend OTP tool
│       ├── checkResetPassword.ts # Check/reset password tool
│       └── verifyUser.ts        # Verify user tool
├── dist/                        # Compiled JavaScript (generated)
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

## Available Tools

### `createPersonalAccount`

Creates a new personal user account in Arobid Backend.

**Parameters:**

- `email` (string, required): User email address
- `password` (string, required): User password (6-20 characters with complexity requirements)
- `firstName` (string, required): User first name
- `lastName` (string, required): User last name
- `title` (string, required): User title (Mr or Mrs)
- `phone` (string, required): User phone number (Vietnamese or international format)
- `national` (string, required): User nationality code (2-letter uppercase country code)

**Example:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "SecurePass123!",
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Doe",
  "title": "Mr",
  "phone": "+841231231123",
  "national": "VN"
}
```

### `userLogin`

Performs user login in Arobid Backend. This can be used to retrieve a new OTP when the previous one has expired.

**Parameters:**

- `email` (string, required): User email address
- `password` (string, required): User password

**Example:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "SecurePass123!"
}
```

**Note**: After successful login, a new OTP will be sent to the user's email. Use this tool when you need to retrieve a fresh OTP after the previous one has expired.

### `resendOtp`

Resends OTP code to user email in Arobid Backend. Use this when verifyUser fails due to expired or invalid OTP.

**Parameters:**

- `userEmail` (string, required): User email address

**Example:**

```json
{
  "userEmail": "user@example.com"
}
```

**Note**: After calling this tool, a new OTP will be sent to the user's email. Use this tool when verification fails or the OTP has expired, instead of using `userLogin`.

### `checkResetPassword`

Initiates password reset process in Arobid Backend. This will send a reset link or OTP to the user's email.

**Parameters:**

- `email` (string, required): User email address

**Example:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com"
}
```

**Note**: After calling this tool, a password reset link or OTP will be sent to the user's email. Use this tool when a user needs to reset their forgotten password.

### `verifyUser`

Verifies a user account in Arobid Backend using the OTP code sent to the user email.

**Parameters:**

- `userEmail` (string, required): User email address
- `otp` (string, required): One-time password (OTP) code - exactly 6 digits

**Example:**

```json
{
  "userEmail": "user@example.com",
  "otp": "123456"
}
```

**Note**: The OTP in this example is for demonstration only. In production, use the actual OTP code sent to the user's email. If the OTP has expired or verification fails, use `resendOtp` to get a new OTP code, or use `userLogin` to retrieve a new one via login.

## MCP Server Integration

The MCP server uses stdio transport and can be integrated with any MCP-compatible client. Configure your MCP client to point to this server's entrypoint.

Example configuration (for Claude Desktop or similar):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "arobid": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/arobid-mcp/dist/index.js"],
      "env": {
        "AROBID_BACKEND_URL": https://api.example.com",
        "AROBID_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

The server includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Input Validation**: Validates required fields and data types before making API calls
- **HTTP Errors**: Converts backend HTTP errors to user-friendly messages
- **Network Errors**: Handles network failures gracefully
- **Logging**: Logs important events and errors to stderr (MCP standard)

## Testing & Cursor Integration

### Local Testing

Test the MCP server locally using the MCP Inspector (recommended):

For a better testing experience, use the MCP Inspector:

```bash
npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector node dist/index.js
```

This opens a web UI where you can interactively test tools, view logs, and debug issues.

### Configuring Cursor

To use this MCP server with Cursor:

1. **Locate Cursor's MCP configuration file**:
   - **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Cursor/User/globalStorage/saoudrizwan.claude-dev/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json`
   - **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Cursor\User\globalStorage\saoudrizwan.claude-dev\settings\cline_mcp_settings.json`
   - **Linux**: `~/.config/Cursor/User/globalStorage/saoudrizwan.claude-dev/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json`

2. **Get your project's absolute path**:

   ```bash
   pwd
   # Example output: /path/to/arobid-mcp
   ```

3. **Add the configuration** (see `cursor-mcp-config.json.example` for a template):

   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "arobid": {
         "command": "node",
         "args": ["/absolute/path/to/arobid-mcp/dist/index.js"],
         "env": {
           "AROBID_BACKEND_URL": https://api.example.com",
           "AROBID_API_KEY": "your-api-key-here"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Restart Cursor** to load the MCP server

5. **Test in Cursor**: Ask "What MCP tools are available?" or try using the tools directly.

For detailed instructions and troubleshooting, see [MCP_TESTING.md](./MCP_TESTING.md).

## Deploying to Vercel

This MCP server can be deployed to Vercel as a serverless function, allowing it to be accessed via HTTP instead of stdio.

### Prerequisites

- A Vercel account
- Vercel CLI installed (optional, for local testing)

### Deployment Steps

1. **Install Vercel CLI** (if not already installed):

   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables in Vercel**:

   - Go to your Vercel project settings
   - Navigate to Environment Variables
   - Add the following variables:
     - `AROBID_BACKEND_URL` (required)
     - `AROBID_API_KEY` (optional)
     - `AROBID_TENANT_ID` (optional)

3. **Deploy to Vercel**:

   ```bash
   vercel
   ```

   Or connect your GitHub repository to Vercel for automatic deployments.

4. **Get your MCP server URL**:

   After deployment, you'll get a URL like `https://your-project.vercel.app`. The MCP endpoint will be available at:
   ```
   https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp
   ```

### Configuring MCP Clients for Vercel Deployment

#### For Cursor

Update your `.cursor/mcp.json` configuration to use the HTTP transport:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "arobid": {
      "url": "https://your-project.vercel.app/mcp",
      "headers":{
       "X-Arobid-Backend-Url": https://api.example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### For Other MCP Clients

Use the Streamable HTTP transport format with your Vercel deployment URL:

```
https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp
```

### Testing the Vercel Deployment

You can test your deployed MCP server using the MCP Inspector:

```bash
pnpm dlx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector@latest http://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp undefined
```

Then:
1. Open `http://127.0.0.1:6274` in your browser
2. Select "Streamable HTTP" in the dropdown
3. Enter your Vercel URL: `https://your-project.vercel.app/api/mcp`
4. Click "Connect"

### Local Development with Vercel

To test the Vercel integration locally:

```bash
vercel dev
```

This will start a local server that mimics Vercel's serverless environment.

## TODO / Known Limitations

The following items need to be configured based on actual Arobid Backend API:

- [ ] Verify exact endpoint path for account creation (currently `/api/user/create_user_for_sign_up_async`)
- [ ] Verify authentication header format (currently using `Authorization: Bearer <key>`)
- [ ] Verify tenant ID header name (currently using `X-Tenant-ID`)
- [ ] Add response type definitions based on actual API responses
- [ ] Add additional tools (profile update, etc.)

All TODO items are marked with `// TODO` comments in the code.

## Contributing

When adding new tools:

1. Create a new file in `src/tools/` (e.g., `src/tools/myNewTool.ts`)
2. Export the tool definition and handler function
3. Register the tool in `src/index.ts`
4. Update this README with tool documentation

## License

MIT
